h1. Local SMTP

p(note). Add-on for <a href="https://www.playframework.com/documentation/1.4.x/home">Play Framework 1.x</a> (this does not work with Play 2.x series!)

This addon is used to start a local smtp server when running in test/dev mode that catches all outgoing email. It is based on on SubEthaSMTP. 

Similar software: 

- https://mailcatcher.me/
  Written in ruby it seems. 
- https://mailtrap.io/
  non-free, saas. 
- http://smtp4dev.codeplex.com/
  Windows only
- http://quintanasoft.com/dumbster/
  Java
- https://nilhcem.github.io/FakeSMTP/
  Java, also based on SubEthaSMTP

h2. Features

* Quick to set up
* Writes to the filesystem, no database needed
* Minimal UI
* Download EML files to test your html mails in email clients without sending any mails and without configuring your mail client. 
* Embedded. No external installation/configuration needed

h2. Sample application

See the play documentation on sending mails 
https://www.playframework.com/documentation/1.4.x/emails

No further code in is needed. 

h2. Getting started

p(note). The preferred way is to install this plugin locally in a subfolder of your application and have it in version control as a submodule. 

h3. Install locally 

First download the add-on and unpack it to @my-app/modules-local/localsmtp@.
This is easy with git: 

<pre>mkdir modules-local
git submodule add https://github.com/kritzikratzi/play1-localsmtp.git modules-local/localsmtp</pre>


Then register it in @dependencies.yml@. 

<pre># Application dependencies
require:
    - play
    - localsmtp -> localsmtp 0.1

repositories:
    - Local Modules:
        type:       local
        artifact:   ${application.path}/modules-local/[module]
        contains:
            - localsmtp
</pre>

And configure it in your application.conf. You can configure as you like, i prefer having a @local@ profile that stays on my machine: 

<pre>mail.smtp.host=your-server.de
mail.smtp.user=your-user  
mail.smtp.pass=your-password
mail.smtp.from=your-email  
mail.smtp.channel=ssl

%local.mail.smtp.host=localhost
%local.mail.smtp.user=localsmtp
%local.mail.smtp.pass=localsmtp
%local.mail.smtp.port=37536
%local.smtp.channel=</pre>


The final step is updating the depencies on the command line. 

<pre>play dependencies modules-local/localsmtp --sync
play dependencies --sync
play eclipsify
</pre>

h2. Configuration

h3. Mail server configuration 

To activate the local smtp server all you have to do is specify @localhost@ as host, and use @localsmtp@ as both username and password. Chose a port over 1024 or you will run into permission problems on linux. 

<pre>mail.smtp.host=localhost
mail.smtp.user=localsmtp
mail.smtp.pass=localsmtp
mail.smtp.port=37536</pre>


h2. Usage

To view all collected emails visit 

<pre>    http://localhost:9000/@emails</pre>

h2. Tags

